---
layout: post
title: "Ubuntu 配置openvpn server"
description: ""
category: 
tags: [linux]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Ubuntu上配置OpenVPN server主要配置两个方面， 一个是OpenVPN Server,另
一个是iptables转发规则.

1. 配置OpenVPNServer
  - 如果机器上没有openvpn，先安装openvpn。 
     sudo apt-get install openvpn
       - 使用easy-rsa来生成证书和密钥，可以copy easy-rsa目录到/etc/openvpn
     下（openvpn安装之后就有这个目录）
     <pre>
     `
     sudo mkdir /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/
     sudo cp -r /usr/share/doc/openvpn/examples/easy-rsa/2.0/* /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/
     sudo chown -R $USER /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/
     `
     </pre>
   - 创建服务器证书
     <pre>
     cd /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/
     source vars
     ./clean-all
     ./build-dh
     ./pkitool --initca
     ./pkitool --server server
     </pre> 
   - 创建服务配置
    <pre>
    cd /etc/openvpn/
    sudo emacs openvpn.conf #如果没有openvpn.conf就创建一个
    </pre>
    输入如下内容

      <pre>
      port xxxx #端口，需要与客户端配置保持一致
      proto udp #使用协议，需要与客户端配置保持一致
      dev tun #也可以选择tap模式
      ca /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/2.0/keys/ca.crt
      cert /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/2.0/keys/server.crt
      key /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/2.0/keys/server.key
      dh /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/2.0/keys/dh1024.pem
      ifconfig-pool-persist ipp.txt
      server 10.111.1.0 255.255.255.0 #给客户的分配的IP段,注意不要与客户端网段冲突！
      push "redirect-gateway"
      push "dhcp-option DNS 8.8.8.8"
      push "dhcp-option DNS 8.8.4.4"
      client-to-client
      ;duplicate-cn
      keepalive 20 60
      comp-lzo
      max-clients 50
      persist-key
      persist-tun
      status openvpn-status.log
      log-append openvpn.log
      verb 3
      mute 20
      </pre>
   - 创建客户端用户
      <pre>
      cd /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/
      source vars
      ./pkitool profilename #profilename是客户端用户名，根据实际填写
      </pre>


2. 配置IPTable转发规则：
      <pre>
      iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -s 10.111.1.0/16 -o eth0 -j SNET
      -to xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
      iptables-save > /etc/iptables.rules
      </pre>

      上面的eth0要替换为你的网卡标识，可以通过ifconfig查看。
      serverip替换为openvpn.conf里的server网段，如10.111.1.0
      -to 后面的ip替换为当前服务器可以访问internet的ip，通常用eth0的ip，
      可以用ifconfig查看
      在/etc/network/if-up.d/目录下创建iptables文件，内容如下：
       <pre>
      #!/bin/sh
      iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.rules
      给脚本添加执行权限：
      chmod +x /etc/network/if-up.d/iptables
             </pre>
      修改/etc/sysctl.conf的内容为：
             <pre>
      net.ipv4.ip_forward = 1
      net.ipv4.conf.all.send_redirects = 0
      net.ipv4.conf.default.send_redirects = 0
      net.ipv4.conf.all.accept_redirects = 0
      net.ipv4.conf.default.accept_redirects = 0
             </pre>

      重新载入/etc/sysctl.conf使其生效，执行如下命令：
      `sysctl -p`
      重启OpenVPN及网络：
      <pre>
      /etc/init.d/openvpn restart
      /etc/init.d/networking restart
      </pre>

3. 配置openvpn client
   - [下载客户端]<https://openvpn.net/index.php?option=com_content&id=357>
   - 安装客户端
   - 创建profile，xx.ovpn,根据服务器配置配置

      <pre>
      ##############################################
      # Sample client-side OpenVPN 2.0 config file #
      # for connecting to multi-client server.     #
      #                                            #
      # This configuration can be used by multiple #
      # clients, however each client should have   #
      # its own cert and key files.                #
      #                                            #
      # On Windows, you might want to rename this  #
      # file so it has a .ovpn extension           #
      ##############################################

      # Specify that we are a client and that we
      # will be pulling certain config file directives
      # from the server.
      client

      # Use the same setting as you are using on
      # the server.
      # On most systems, the VPN will not function
      # unless you partially or fully disable
      # the firewall for the TUN/TAP interface.
      ;dev tap
      dev tun

      # Windows needs the TAP-Win32 adapter name
      # from the Network Connections panel
      # if you have more than one.  On XP SP2,
      # you may need to disable the firewall
      # for the TAP adapter.
      ;dev-node MyTap

      # Are we connecting to a TCP or
      # UDP server?  Use the same setting as
      # on the server.
      ;proto tcp
      proto udp

      # The hostname/IP and port of the server.
      # You can have multiple remote entries
      # to load balance between the servers.
      remote <serverip> <port>

      # Choose a random host from the remote
      # list for load-balancing.  Otherwise
      # try hosts in the order specified.
      ;remote-random

      # Keep trying indefinitely to resolve the
      # host name of the OpenVPN server.  Very useful
      # on machines which are not permanently connected
      # to the internet such as laptops.
      resolv-retry infinite

      # Most clients don't need to bind to
      # a specific local port number.
      nobind

      # Downgrade privileges after initialization (non-Windows only)
      ;user nobody
      ;group nogroup

      # Try to preserve some state across restarts.
      persist-key
      persist-tun

      # If you are connecting through an
      # HTTP proxy to reach the actual OpenVPN
      # server, put the proxy server/IP and
      # port number here.  See the man page
      # if your proxy server requires
      # authentication.
      ;http-proxy-retry # retry on connection failures
      ;http-proxy [proxy server] [proxy port #]

      # Wireless networks often produce a lot
      # of duplicate packets.  Set this flag
      # to silence duplicate packet warnings.
      ;mute-replay-warnings

      # SSL/TLS parms.
      # See the server config file for more
      # description.  It's best to use
      # a separate .crt/.key file pair
      # for each client.  A single ca
      # file can be used for all clients.
      ca ca.crt
      cert profilename.crt
      key  profilename.key

      # Verify server certificate by checking
      # that the certicate has the nsCertType
      # field set to "server".  This is an
      # important precaution to protect against
      # a potential attack discussed here:
      #  http://openvpn.net/howto.html#mitm
      #
      # To use this feature, you will need to generate
      # your server certificates with the nsCertType
      # field set to "server".  The build-key-server
      # script in the easy-rsa folder will do this.
      ns-cert-type server

      # If a tls-auth key is used on the server
      # then every client must also have the key.
      ;tls-auth ta.key 1

      # Select a cryptographic cipher.
      # If the cipher option is used on the server
      # then you must also specify it here.
      ;cipher x

      # Enable compression on the VPN link.
      # Don't enable this unless it is also
      # enabled in the server config file.
      comp-lzo

      # Set log file verbosity.
      verb 3

      # Silence repeating messages
      ;mute 20

      </pre>
      [引用]<http://www.seedmybox.com/wiki/index.php?title=Installing_OpenVPN>
